Because of my ongoing interest in effective altrusim and the usefulness of data to guide more effective giving, I recently took an edX course entitled "The Challenges of Global Poverty" which talked about using randomized controlled trials to gauge the power of different interventions (in areas such as health, education, finance) on boosting outcomes for the world's poorest countries.  The class came out of a book titled "Poor Economics" where the focus was on individuals earning less than $.99 purchasing power parity per day.  This number was the result of an converting the 16 Indian rupee poverty line benchmark for the 18 country data set studied to 36 cents American (using the standard exchange rate) and then further adjusting to reflect higher prices in the United States for a basket of goods that the poor buy on a daily basis.  In this way you could imagine trying to live and buy goods in the U.S. with 99 cents and have a similar feel for what the people in the book must try to do.

It was an interesting book at times, but also quite dry and somewhat predictable if you have a feel for these issue from the beginning.  No magic bullets, incremental change, a general split between what the book terms supply wallahs (e.g. Sachs who think most poverty issues are the result of a lack of access) vs. demand wallahs (e.g. Easterly who think most poverty issues are a result of a lack of desire) and what, if anything creates a poverty trap.  The book summarizes this last concept and goes back to it quite frequently as an "S-shaped curve" plotting current earning power against future earning power.  

The data that accompanies the book [can be found here](https://web.archive.org/web/20190223054028/http://www.pooreconomics.com/data/country/home "Poor Economics") for anyone to take a look at.

